# BEMT
Blade element momentum theory implementation in MATLAB

This program is an implementation of Burrill's blade element momentum theory (BEMT), as set out in the book _Ship Resistance and Propulsion_, by A.F. Molland, S.R. Turnock, & D.A. Hudson (2011). The geometry definition and validation programs are currently set up to work with Wageningen B-series propellers, but this can be changed easily and the other parts of the program allow for NACA or custom blade sections. 

The program solves iteratively for the efficiency and flow induction factors at each blade section, which give the local thrust and torque coefficients. These are then integrated over the blade length to provide the thrust, torque and efficiency for the entire propeller. Goldstein and Ludwieg-Ginzel flow correction factors are used, and the lift & drag characteristics of each blade section are taken from experimental data. A basic cavitation bucket check is carried out at each radius fraction once the local angle of attack has been found. 

To use the program, start by opening _main.m_ and inputting all the required characteristics of your Wageningen propeller, as well as the range of advance ratios and flow information such as Reynolds number. There is also the option to input a Taylor wake fraction, either as a constant value or a circumferentially-averaged radial distribution. Running _main.m_ will then generate the reference propeller performance curves for validation, and then solve the BEMT method at the specified radius fractions. The efficiency, thrust coefficient, and torque coefficient are plotted on the same axes as the reference curves for validation. On completion of each step of the method, the results (i.e. induction factors, local thrust, torque, lift, and drag coefficients, and required iteration numbers for the angle of attack and efficiency) may be displayed in the console optionally. 
